We're now ready to talk about
the fourth part of our image
crawler example.
And this will actually
examine several methods.
It'll examine the
crawlLinksInPage method
and the
combineImageCounts method.
Of all the methods
we've seen so far,
the crawlLinksInPage
method is one
of the most interesting ones.
So let's take a look
at that one first.
This method returns
a CompletableFuture
to the number of
Image Source URLs that
are accessible via
links in this page.
And so as you'll
see, it's going to be
used as part of this recursive
traversal of the web tree
or the tree of links
that are accessible
through the nested document
structure, nested director
hierarchy.
It's past the page, which is the
document that we're looking at.
And the first thing it does is
it goes ahead and makes a call
to the jsoup method
select, except,
unlike the previous
time we used select
where we selected the image
source URLs, this time we're
going to return a list of all
the hyperlinks in this page.
So that, of course, we'll go
out and parse through the HTML
in that page, find
all the hyperlinks,
and return a list
of those hyperlinks.
We then turn around--
oh, and the fact that
the select method
runs synchronously--
that's why we use
the thenComposeAsync method.
So this will run in a background
thread in the worker thread
of the common ForkJoinPool.
We then turn around and
convert that list of hyperlinks
into a sequential stream.
Don't need to use a
parallel stream here
for reasons that'll become
obvious in just a moment.
So now we have a stream of
hyperlinks on this page.
What we then do is we take
each of those hyperlinks using
the map intermediate
operation, and we recursively
call the countImages method.
CountImages was the method
we talked back and talked
about back in part 2 of
this particular lesson.
And that's the one that
takes a length and a depth
and then starts the whole
process in motion, except now
what we're going to
do is we're going
to start the whole
process in motion again,
but for each of the hyperlinks
that is on a given document
page.
The way that's going
to work is we're
going to use the getHyperLink
method from our JSuper wrapper
to get the hyperlink,
which could either
be a hyperlink into the web or
hyperlink into the file system.
We don't know.
We don't care.
That's what my JSuper
wrapper encapsulates.
And then we also pass in the
depth, incrementing it by 1
because we're going
to go 1 level down
in our hierarchy of recursively
traversing the nested directory
structure.
So what we're going to
get back from countImages,
if you recall, is
a CompletableFuture
to an integer.
And so for every
hyperlink on this page,
we're going to get back a
stream of CompletableFutures
to Integers.
So count images itself
runs asynchronously,
as we saw before.
And it returns a future to the
number of images at this link
and at this depth.
So if you go back to the
part two of this example,
you'll see how that works.
So now we've got a stream
of these CompletableFutures.
What do we do next?
Well, we use our
FuturesCollector,
which we talked about when we
were discussing our wrapper
class for the
Arbitrary-arity allOf
method in CompletableFutures.
And we use the FuturesCollector
that we had before in order
to be able to create a single
completable future that
will be triggered when all the
futures in the stream complete.
So when all that
recursive traversal,
which could actually
go many levels,
depending on what we've
set max depth to be--
when all those futures
in the stream complete,
then and only then will
the CompletableFuture
return from FutureCollector
to Future complete.
And when that happens,
when we finally
finished all the
traversal, we have a list
of, essentially, integers.
And then we go ahead
and we reduce them.
So we turn the
list into a stream.
And then we reduce them by
summing everything together.
So what we'll get as the
result of this function
is basically going to
be a CompletableFuture
to an integer, which constitutes
a count of all the images
reachable from this
particular page
by crawling all
of its hyperlinks.
Now, this gets a future
back, and that future
will be flattened by the
thenComposeAsync method that
passed in crawlLinksInPage
as its action.
The last thing we're
going to talk about
is the combineImageCounts
method.
And just to refresh you on
where we are in our crawl,
so at this point, we would
have initiated the crawl
to get the number of images that
were reachable from the page.
That's what the
crawlLinksInPage method
did that we just talked about.
We would have also initiated
the getImagesInPage method
to find out how many
images were on this page.
And the last thing
we're going to do
is we're going to invoke the
combineImageCounts method,
and this will go ahead and
count the number of images
on the page and the ones that
are accessible by our links
on this page.
And to do this, we pass in
the two CompletableFutures,
imagesInPageF, and
imagesInLinksF.
And so this is a classic
example of joining together
the results.
So let's take a look
at combineImageCounts.
I think you may
already have a sense
of what we're going to do here.
We're going to end up taking
those CompleteableFutures
in as parameters,
and then we're going
to use the composition
method thenCombine, which
is the completion
stage method we've
talked about before that will
take two CompletableFutures.
And only when they
both complete,
will we go ahead
and run its action.
And its action
here as you can see
is to sum the results together.
So summing results together
is a very quick operation.
And, therefore, it's
probably overkill to use
thenCombineAsync here.
We could do it, but it's
probably not worth it.
We're probably better off
just using thenCombine.
Because by the
time we go to sum,
all the hard work's been done.
And now we're just adding
two integers together,
and that'll take no time at all.
So that's the end
of this example.
I think you'll have a lot of
fun going through this carefully
and rereading the code and
running it to see what it does.
It's really a
fascinating example
of how to take the
advanced features of Java's
CompletableFutures framework
and apply them to a real world
complex application
that would otherwise
be rather tricky to write.
You might also have fun trying
to rewrite this program using
parallel streams
instead of using
ComputableFutures and
then timing it to see
which one performs better.
I haven't actually gone to
the trouble of doing that yet.
But if somebody gets inspired
and wants to try that,
I'd be very interested in
knowing whether the completed
a futures version is faster than
the parallel streams version.
I kind of have a feeling
that it would be,
and that's because the whole
model of processing here really
lends itself better
to asynchrony
than the
divide-and-conquer approach
that parallel streams tries
to enforce on the programming
model, which may be too
much of a procrustean bed
to work effectively
in this case.
And the real problem here
is that these directory
hierarchies are not
really evenly balanced,
so I think asynchrony is
probably a better way to go.